## Krsna is so great and inconceivable...

In my journey of Krishna Consciousness, initially I tried to understand everything logically. Then after a certain point, I realized that understanding Krsna in truth (evam yo vetti tattvatah) actually means accepting the fact that we can't understand him completely(na me viduh sura-ganah...bg 10.2). So, now if I don't understand something related to pastimes of Krsna, I have no hesitation to take it as inconceivable potency of Lord and limitation of the infinitesimal brain of mine. People generally ask me many logical questions and most of them are satisfied with my answer. But actually, I just counter their arguments tactfully. They think they have understood Krsna but I just counteracted their arguments. Actually, Krsna can't be understood, at least in our current corrupted situation.

E.g. one person asked me, why Krsna made the law of karma in such a way that sins from my previous life can also affect the current one. Why so? It should be like an instant result within one lifetime. His point was that if Karma is reaped in the same lifetime then we don't have to carry the baggage of karma from the previous life and it will help in our Krsna consciousness as the sinful reactions would not bother us. So I just countered his claim with few arguments (but it is not required, because Krsna can do anything he likes, He is not answerable to anyone) - 

i. Sometimes it takes multiple lifetimes to create a proper situation when then sinful activity was done (obviously Krsna can make that situation in one lifetime also). E.g. Dhrtarastra committed a sinful activity(killing 100 young birds) 50 lifetimes ago and so he was destined to lose 100 of his sons, but to accumulate the pious credit to have 100 sons he took 50 lifetimes. So things are complex about the Law of Karma.

ii. Instant karma (you are punished immediately) or extended version of that i.e. Karma within a lifetime - these restrictions will cause one to forcibly accept the path of worshipping Krsna. Because when everyone will see that if I do wrong I will be punished instantly or within this lifetime, nobody will commit sin in fear of getting punished and will accept the path of worship of Krsna out of fear and not out of spontaneous love. And Krsna doesn't want to withdraw our independence of not serving him.

iii. Sometimes residual karma from a previous life is good. When we suffer we feel motivated to take shelter of Krsna.

iv. The point of the questioner was "single lifetime karma will help for a new start in KC". There's a basic flaw in this concept. This material world is not created to facilitate the service of Krsna. But it was created when the living entity became envious of Krsna and wanted to enjoy sense gratification(7.27 BG). One person asked Srila Prabhupada why Krsna created this material world. Srila Prabhupada addressed the person as "Rascal" and replied, "Krsna didn't create this material world but you created the material world". So it was created to facilitate our material desires. We wanted and Krsna granted. So, the argument is pointless in this regard.

So, these explanations may look lucrative but the reality is that, Krsna is beyond all these explanations and logic. While asking questions about Krsna we should be careful and have a proper attitude. Because when we ask such questions like "Why Krsna did this, why not that?" it basically means that we are indirectly disrespecting Krsna and claiming ourselves to be smarter than the Supreme Personality of Godhead. We can't question the activities of Krsna as He is Svarat (supremely independent). He himself highlighted this point in Bhagavad Gita 4.9, that His birth and activities are on the transcendental platform and we have no capacity to judge them with our tiny material intelligence. Therefore before asking any question, we have to maintain the decorum as stated in BG 4.34 "pariprasnena sevaya" - submissive inquiry. Now, how do we understand whether our inquiry is submissive or not? A simple check is - ask yourself a question "If I don't get a satisfactory answer to this question, am I ready to accept it as the inconceivable potency of Krsna and incapability of my limited material intelligence?" if the answer is "yes" then your attitude is submissive otherwise it is difficult to progress in spiritual life.

Therefore in different scriptures again and again Krsna emphasizes on the point "Only through devotion one can understand Me" (Bg 18.55, SB 11.14.20, Adi Puran, etc)

Thank you very much for your patient reading. Hare Krsna !!

Your Servant,
R큰par훮ja R훮ma D훮sa

